---
title: Week 7, Session 1
published_at: 2024-05-09
snippet: My introduction and first draft.
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

Similar to last assignment, I started by writing down the ideas that came to my head first. The most significant change that has happened to me (it always tends to come to mind while answering prompts like these) is my development and arduous healing process of major depressive disorder. However, I've refused to delve into it at all in my creative work because I don't want to revisit that headspace. Another idea I thought of was the way uni life has left me no space in my brain to even think about things like tidying my room, doing laundry regularly, or even eating sometimes (it's something I'm working on). But as soon as I wrote down my third idea, I couldn't really envision a better concept so I decided to go with that one.

Short statement of my core concept:

The transition I am focusing on is the evolution of my perception of femininity. Before my pre-teen years, I unabashedly loved everything that is typically associated with young girls: pink, dresses, glitter, and princesses. However, as I grew older, I started to reject these things and generally closed up emotionally for no apparent reason other than "cringe" and embarrassment. In the past few years, I've started to embrace my femininity again because I do have an interest in things like skirts and makeup, and hiding it would just be spending unnecessary effort to be untrue to myself. This has brought me a sense of liberation that comes with self expression.

How my environment will change:
I'm envisioning a closed space that the player starts in that represents my childhood and teen years. The environment will progress in an upwards direction to represent growing up and getting older. However, I want the player to end up on the outside of this space to represent the way my views have opened up to see everything I felt as a child in the context of larger things like other peoples' experiences, the concept of internalised misogyny, and the importance of self expression. The atmosphere in these 3 separate sections will reflect my feelings towards myself and this femininity in their respective periods. The first section will be whimsical and fun, but contained to represent childhood, safety, and the lack of knowledge that comes with it. The second will be a lot more spacious with a less saturated colour palette to represent my rejection of femininity and the feeling of self restriction. The environment outside will be natural, expansive, and realistic to depict complete, grounded freedom. 

Ideally all of these elements will interact with one another in some way to illustrate how I thought about previous moments of my life, but I'm not sure how do go about that yet.

List of assets:
- princess model
- flowers & nature in general
- makeup
- model of a young girl
- maybe buildings
- concrete texture


<br><br>