---
title: Week 8, Session 2
published_at: 2024-05-12
snippet: Developing room 2 & 3
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

I used a concrete stairs model for the stairs on the second floor, as well as simple cubes to create their landings. I had to alter the scale quite significantly which stretched the textures, so I changed the tiling on the material to the most pleasant looking setting. 

Glass: made a very thin cube, created a material with a very light blue tint, made it transparent, set the A value to about 2. An issue was that it reflected the skybox, so after a bit of research I created a baked reflection probe. it didn't reflect much - the glass just looked empty. I also tried to duplicate it so that its other surfaces would show but from the side it just looked like 2 different layers of glass so I deleted it. it was still better than the skybox though, and fixed the weird blue colouring of some objects. I realised that the reflection of the skybox was also what was interfering with my adjustment of the sun in the first room, so I went back to change the material back to a 3d one, rather than a solid colour. I would have created extra reflection probes in different rooms to increase the realism of the reflections, but i saw other people saying that too many would eat up performance so I just kept it at one.

I wanted the tone in the third section to be darker than the second to create a stronger sense of confusion and being lost. The concrete stairs were making the atmosphere very dark and too abrupt a transition from the first room, so I decided to make the floor a light neutral carpet. Found texture, changed tiling. before, I wanted the walls to transition from light to dark too, but I decided against it in the end as I didn't want to make it a gradient, but a patterned transition would be too visually noisy. 

I made the second room as small as possible so that the stairs wouldn't need to be stretched too much to fit in vertically. I utilsed the leftover space to create a hallway leading up to the next level, where there would be a maze.

As just creating the outer box, stairs, and glass were difficult enough, I knew manually making the maze from cubes would take an unecessarily long time. I searched up how others created mazes in unity and found a video tutorial on how to use the terrain tool. I downloaded a terrain tool expansion package and followed the tutorial. The video suggested this website to automatically generate mazes, but i already had my layout planned, so I just quickly made the maze in illustrator and exported it to PNG. Everything went smoothly but the edges of the walls weren't completely straight and 90 degrees - they slightly curved outwards at the bottom probably becuase the image wasn't a vector, so I just lowered the terrain until they weren't as visible but still didn't protrude from the roof of tyhe second level.

I used probuilder to delete the faces on the top half of the 4th set of stairs that met the glass. Then I adjusted the area around the glass to make it look more architecturally plausible. I intend for the user to step on the glass and look down to the first floor, but the platform that I added on the left side accidentally created an oblique path for the player to walk around the glass, which I really wanted to avoid. After brainstorming, I decided on some black smoke to at least visually deter the player from taking that path, and to also darken the mood, creating a mini transition as you reach the top of the stairs. I added the princess from the first floor wearing pants and tried to position its limbs in a way that looked like it was throwing the skirt behind it, to create a more obvious symbol of the rejection of femininity and childhood. 

Initially I had planned to put all the my recent "feminine interests" along the long hallway leading to the drop, but I decided that the maze was quite empty and it would also make more sense to show them in isolation, so I placed them in various dead ends in the maze. I had trouble lighting up the area because the floor, wall, and roof were all black, and it would be even more difficult to navigate without lights. I couldn't use point lights as unless I used a large quantity of them, the area would not be evenly lit up due to the winding nature of the maze. I also didn't want anything in the structure itself to give away the players position but rather their memory of their route and the various objects I placed in the dead ends. After a bit of research, I decided to use a subtle area light to increase the visibility of the walls. I had a bit of trouble setting it up, but after playing around with the settings and manually generating the lighting multiple times, it worked. 

In the end, I did end up using quite a few lights in the maze through the spotlights that would shine on each object to highlight them. I thought the default spotlight wasn't very realistic, so I searched for a way to fake volumetric lighting without particles. I eventually found this thread:

https://forum.unity.com/threads/how-to-create-a-light-cone-or-shaft-of-light.2660/

that had a downloadable package with these spotlight cones. I used some of their assets and played around with them until I was happy with the effect. That meant changing the shader from legacy to standard, altering the transparency of the material, and slightly reducing the scale of the inner cones to create a more gradual fade on the edges of the cone. 

Finding good assets for the objects in the maze were tricky, as not many of them would communicate what I wanted to effectively. For example, I found a "goth pleated skirt" which had a style I did like, but its uniqueness would distract from the idea I wanted to convey, which was simply a renewed interest in skirts. I eventually found a skirt with a plaid pattern that was too dark, so I changed up the material until I was happy with its contrast against the background. I also adjusted the mannequin underneath with probuilder so that it wouldn't clip through the skirt as they were two different assets.

Another tricky one was the makeup. I found a 3 models I could use, but the first one didn't have the materials that were shown on the sketchfab page. The mesh wasn't split either, so I couldn't change the material of the individual items unless I spent a long time selecting faces on probuilder as well as making each material from scratch. The second had some missing faces that couldn't be fixed by simply flipping the normals in probuilder, and the third had floating objects with meshes that weren't separated by each object but rather its materials. I settled on the third one and separated the objects using probuilder. I then downloaded a jewelry box asset and positioned everything in the box. 

I also tinkered with the mary jane heels - The model I downloaded was mostly black. I thought it didn't stand out enough from the black walls of the maze, so I changed the material to a bright red colour that I like on mary janes. However, the inside and outside of the shoe had the same material which looked weird when it was all red, so I used probuilder to separate the inner and outer parts of the shoe. I created a tan material that I applied to the inside

At first, I had the spotlights attached to the wall facing the player, which resulted in slight backlighting of the objects. It didn't look great with the mannequin, but I made do with it until I added the statue in at the end of the maze. Because of its height, the majority of it was unlit by the spotlight, so I changed the position of all the lights so that all the objects would be lit up properly. 


<br><br>