---
title: Week 9, Session 1
published_at: 2024-05-13
snippet: Sources and final development
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

## Sources ##

Models: https://sketchfab.com/. Accessed 14 - 28 May 2024. 
Link to my collection (most unused, some that I did use weren't saved): https://sketchfab.com/ahahawaitwhat/collections/ass-3-b91b1b08ad234d5cae6daf63064c252a

Audio:
Quincas Moreira (Jan 2019) Rainbow Forest, Youtube Audio Library, accessed 21 March 2024. https://studio.youtube.com/
Attribution License: Youtube Audio Library License

Pro Sound Effects (2004-) 

1. RoomTone_BW.61040.wav
2. ForestBirdInsects_ZA01.309.wav

Pro Sound Effects website, accessed 28 May 2024. https://library-prosoundeffects-com.ap1.proxy.openathens.net/tracks?s=
Attribution License: Royalty-free / Commercial Synchronization / All Media / Worldwide / Unlimited Usage by 1-User License

## Summary of development ##

This week, I first worked on the hallway - creating the outer shape of it was simple - I used just a couple cubes and adjusted their scaling and position. I already had a wooden sign with the words, "danger - do not enter - you will die" written on it that I was planning to put at the end, but since the hallway was now empty due to the fact that I put all the objects within the maze, I decided to put some more warning signs there to strengthen the forboding feeling of the drop off. The purpose of the feeling was to imitate the big mental leap I had to take to stop hiding my interests. It really did feel like I was dying (of shame and embarrassment) the first time I wore makeup in front of my friends, but in reality they didn't care beyond thinking it was cool that I had developed an interest in it. THe purpose of placing the objects within the black box rather than the outside world is to showcase that at first, I was secretive about these "feminine" things I liked before being more open about them. 

I also wanted the end of the hallway to be more of a square shape rather than a vertical rectangle, which was what it looked like initially. I used probuilder to drag the edges of the cubes that made up the hallway. This created some gaps and strange angles, which I fixed using more cubes. These cubes made the exterior of the hallway look messy, but that wasn't an issue as I was planning on using a trigger box to hide them. 

In my environment, I had quite a few trigger boxes/zones:

The first was above the glass; when the player stood on the glass, the mesh renderer of the carpet floor and roof of the first room would be disabled and an extra wall would be enabled, reducing distraction from the heart shape I was trying to create. 

The second was the entrance to the maze. While editing the terrain for the maze walls, I also made a hole the player would emerge from. This hole worked fine with the default terrain shader and any textures I added to it, but the shader didn't have a smoothness option. Without any smoothness, it would look significantly different from the rest of the material making up the black box, and there would be zero reflections meaning the maze would be much harder to navigate. When I created my own custom material for the maze, the hole wouldn't render properly (none of the terrain was visible from below which was ideal, but from above it appeared as if there was no hole) as I didn't have a custom terrain shader set up. I tried to look into how to do that, but the process was complicated and I couldn't find where the shader files were located despite researching for a while. I opted to use a trigger zone to cover up the hole instead as the player could pass through it despite there being no visible hole, and it looked quite different from the ground surrounding it. I had a cube with a hole in it to serve as the ground to the maze rather than the terrain, so I just duplicated that, rotated it so the hole would be somewhere else, and used the trigger zone to create a dynamic mesh renderer and box collider. 

The third was the hallway trigger zone as mentioned above. When the player was inside the black box/hallway and within viewing range of the hallway, everything inside would render. As soon as the player jumped off, the hallway renderers are disabled, and an extra wall to cover up the hole on the side of the black box would appear. I would like this to create a feeling of questioning whether everything inside the box was real or only existed in the metaphorical narrator's imagination. This reflects my experience of realising everything in my head was exaggerated and other people didn't actually care how feminine I was.

The fourth was a trigger to better optimise performance, and the 5th, 6th, and 7th were for sound design purposes. I will elaborate on them somewhere below.

After I finished with everything in the black box, I realised that now that I had probuilder and could use it comfortably, I could edit the low poly girl's face mesh and change her mouth shape from a smile into the slighly open neutral expression I initially planned. I mainly used the edge select with the transformation and scaling handles to edit it into the shape I wanted. I then changed her pose using the rotation handles. 

At this point, the terrain was still barren and roughly blocked out. I decided to increase its size to make the environment appear more vast, but placed some invisible planes with box colliders to restrict the players movement within the 250x250 range we are limited to. I then shaped it with different features in mind: a river, rocky mountains,hills, and relatively flat plains.

I then textured it with the Polytope Studio textures, along with a stone one that I downloaded. They also have a built in water shader that I used for the river. After I was happy with the layout, I added a brige across the river, trees, grass, stones, and other miscellaneous "nature features". This really helped the area come alive, but I noticed that it caused quite a significant amount of lag. 

For a while I had planned to put buildings on the terrain to increase a sense of realism in the modern world, but decided that it wasn't necessary in the end to convey the message I wanted, which was freedom, peace, and realism. I thought the terrain layout and graphics already achieved this. 

I employed multiple different methods throughout the construction of my 3D environment to reduce the load on resources. I limited the amount of lights in the first room, grouped objects into LOD groups, baked all of my lights except for the internal and external sun lights, created convex mesh colliders, reduced my reflection probe count to 1, used box colliders when possible, reduced the range for the Polytope Studio "tree" LODs, and used a trigger zone to disable "tree" rendering when inside the black box. Initially, I used the "terrain enabled" boolean for the trigger zone, but it didn't work as it counted as a "destroy" function rather than just a disabling of the render. In the end, all of these methods helped, but might have not been enough to guarantee a smooth experience navigating the environment. Despite all of the LOD groups I set up with the objects within the black box, there was still a significant frame drop when the player stood outside and looked in its direction. Maybe if I had been willing to compromise more I could have optimised the performance better. 

The sound design was implemented quite quickly. I wanted there to be some type of background sound playing in the different areas. I used a lighthearted and slightly fantastical tune for the first room, an ambient hum for the 2nd and third level, and natural forest sounds for the outside world. For the first two, I just adjusted the range until it included the entire area, and changed some of the settings like the spatial blend to 3D and the volume percentage and roll off. One issue with the child room's audio was that if the player stood in the middle of the carpet on the 2nd level, they would be in range for the lighthearted music. I used a trigger box to disable the audio in that situation. 

The natural forest sounds also needed a trigger box. I made the spatial blend 2D so that it would play at the same volume regardless of where the player was located, and disabled the audio when they were in the black box. However, this created an aprupt switch of audio when the player exited the zone. To create a natural fade, I made another trigger box and a duplicate of the forest sounds. I made this one 3D and positioned it so that the music would get louder as the player descended during their fall.

The last bit of sound design I did was the telephone in the first room. I have a video on my laptop of me, my sister, and a family friend feeding ducks when I was about 3 years old. It had a carefree and nostalgic feel that fit perfectly, so I added it to the telephone and added both a high pass and low pass filter to it to create that typical "telephone" sound.

<br><br>